How to ready your code to push on production that is lecture 2 is about.

before pushing code to production
you have to do lot of things 
like minifying your code,
bundling your code ,
Image optimization,
chuncking


😛About NPM ?

1.npm does not have a full form 
2.npm manages packages but it does not stand for node package manager .
3.npm is a standard repository for all the packages.It is a biggest package manager.
4.any package we want to include in our project , we can use npm . 
5.All the packages are hosted over npm repository.
6.all the libraries, all the utilities that we want to use , comes in npm .


let's add npm in our project .
npm init
name your package name 
put some description.
for test command just add jest for now 
it will show the git repository location.
in keyword add anything as you want . like react , js etc.
add author name 
for license , just enter , go with ISC(default).

by doing this steps , you will get the 😎Package.json file.
this whole step created a json file ...


😛package.json
1. package.json is the configuration for npm .
2. package and dependencies are one and the same thing .
3. our project is dependent on all of packages.
4. npm take care of versions of all the packages .


😛the most important package in our project is a Bundler.
what is Bundler ?
when we have html, css and js , 
our whole code needs to be bundle together,
minified together, cached, compressed, cleaned 
before it get sent to production.


😛Bundler 
webpack, parcel, vite all are bundlers.
Bundlers are tools that take your application’s source code (JavaScript, TypeScript, CSS, images, etc.) and bundle them into optimized files that browsers can understand and load efficiently.(production ready)

👉 Think of a bundler like a kitchen chef:

You give them raw ingredients (your source code, dependencies, styles, images).
The chef prepares a dish (a single optimized file or set of files).
The customer (browser) only needs that prepared dish to enjoy the meal — not the raw ingredients separately.

👉 Why do we use Bundlers?

1.Combine multiple files into fewer files
Browsers used to make a new request for every JS file. Bundling reduces HTTP requests by combining them.
Example: Instead of loading 100 JS files, it loads 1–2 bundles.

2.Transpiling / Compatibility
Write code in modern JS/TS/React/Vue, but not all browsers support it.
Bundlers work with Babel or SWC to convert it into browser-compatible code.

3.Minification / Optimization
Removes spaces, comments, unused code (tree-shaking).
Makes final files smaller and faster to load.

4.Asset Handling
Can also bundle CSS, images, fonts, etc., into the output.
Example: Importing CSS directly inside JS (import './style.css').

5.Hot Reloading / Dev Server
Bundlers like Vite, Webpack Dev Server, Parcel spin up a local server.
Instantly reflect changes in the browser without manual reload.


😛devdependencies vs dependencies 

devDependencies is required when we develop our app. 
and normal dependencies are used in production.

we install parcel as a dev dependencies because the minification of code,
transpilation of code is done on development environment only, production pe 
iski zarurat nahi padti h .

😛caret(^) and tild(~) sign in package versions?
when we use ^ (caret) , and if in future parcel version get upgrade from 
2.8.3 to 2.8.4 then caret will automatically upgrade my parcel package to 
2.8.4. 

we use caret for minor version upgrade.

when we use tilde(~) , when we want to upgrade the pacel package to it's major version.

😛what is package-lock.json
It keeps the track of exact version of packages(dependencies), that is being installed.
It lock the version of packages and keeps the record of it.

It is working on my local but it's not working on my production.
so to avoid it , package-lock.json keep the integrity means hash of all the version 
and check whatever we have in local are those are same on production.

😛Node_Modules ?
it contain all the code that we fetch from npm when installing any package and keep it in our project which i have just created.
each package or dependencies have there own code and there own dependencies(transitive dependency)package.json.

node module is kind of database , where all packages exist.


😛transitive dependencies
parcel as an object have it's own dependencies and those dependencies would have their 
own dependencies , it is called as transitive dependencies.


😛gitignore file
if i do not want to push node modules to my github or production(include production env also), then i will use gitignore.
gitignore tells Git which files/folders not to track or push.

Note : It is important to push package.json and package-lock.json into github.
package-lock.json take care of that whatever dependency we have in local 
should be same on production.

Note : If i have package and package-lock.json then i can regenerate Node_Modules folder 
by using npm install.

whatever you can regenerate do not put it into .gitignore



😛Now we are building our application using parcel
npx parcel index.html(source file of our application)
our app will start running on localhost .
npx means executing a package.

By executing this => parcel goes to index.html and build our application
and our application starts running on localhost.


😛Note : CDN links are not preferred way to bring react and
react-dom into our project , becuase it is an expensive process
because we are making an another network call instead we can install it 
and have react in our node_module , so it would be easy to use react.
If in future if the cdn link got change, then we have to update them .


😛Install react and react-dom
npm i react
npm i react-dom
now we no longer need the cdn links


😛parcel automatically update the content on UI 
whenever we change anything on our code.

- Dev build
- Local Server
- HMR = hot module replacement 
- File watching algorithm - written in c++
- Parcel Caching - Faster Builds
- Image Optimization (most expensive thing in our app is to load image in our webpage)
- Parcel does Minification of our file (production ready).
- Bundling 
- compressing
- Consistent Hashing
- code splitting (lazy loading)
- Differential Bundling (make our app available for older browser also) - support older browsers 
- Diagnostic
- Error Handling 
- Host app on HTTPS 
- Tree shaking - remove unused code 
- Different dev and production bundles
(npx parcel build index.html)


😛Note : 
1. whenever we run npx parcel index.html 
all the bundles get created under dist folder .
and when we rebuild, parcel use dist and .parcel-cache 
folders .(Hot module replacement).

2. I can regenerate dist folder by npx parcel build index.html 
so that's why I am putting it into gitignore.

😛Make our app compatible with older versions 
- We will use browserList
- you have to mention on which browser and there versions you wanna support
your application.
- on your package.json you configure browserLists.








